Meakan-Dake is an active volcano, located in Akan National Park on the island of Hokkaido, northern Japan. The summit of Meakan-Dake is the highest point of the crater rim.

At the foot of the mountain, to the west, is Lake Onneto and the handful of establishments that make up Meakan Onsen.

The nearest town, Akan Kohan, is a popular tourist town/resort on the shore of Lake Akan, 18km by road from Meakan Onsen. To hike Meakan-Dake, find your way to Akan Kohan first and from there to the mountain. For all about Akan Kohan, [click here] to visit the official Akan Kohan website.

The hiking season runs from early June to mid-October. Outside the season, temperatures drop to well below freezing with deep snow in the mountains.

For weather conditions lakeside at Akan Kohan, [click here]. Remember, off season temperatures and conditions will be far worse in the mountains than lakeside.

There is a choice of 3 routes to hike Meakan Dake. The Shiroyu-yama Shizen Satsuro Trail approaches from the the north-east, beginning not far from the campground in Akan Kohan. The Meakan Onsen Trail begins at Meakan Onsen. The Onneto Trail begins at Ao-nen-no-uchi.

Ascending by one route and descending by another is possible and highly recommended. If driving to the trailhead, where your car is parked will obviously determine your course. Whichever course you choose, the hike should take no longer than 7 hours.

The most popular route is to ascend by the Meakan Onsen Trail and descend by the Onneto Trail to Ao-nen-no-uchi, from where it is a scenic 1 hour walk along Lake Onneto back to where you began at Meakan Onsen. There is car parking spaces at Meakan Onsen which is also serviced by bus from Akan Kohan. It takes between 4 & 5 hours to complete this 8km course.

However, I recommend getting an early start in Akan Kohan, walking to the Shiroyu-yama Shizen Satsuro Trail head from Akan Kohan, ascending by this route and descending by the Onneto Trail or the Meakan Trail. Remember to make note of when the last bus leaves Ao-nen-no-uchi or Meakan Onsen to bring you back to Akan Kohan. This course offers stunning views of the mountain as you ascend. It takes between 6 & 7 hours to complete.

Shiroyu-yama Shizen Satsuro Trail
Leaving Akan Kohan on Route 240 in the direction of Bihoro. 400m past the Akan Kohan campground, take a left turn on to a forest road. Follow this forest road for 3km where you will meet the trailhead with carparking space.

Meakan Onsen Trail
From Akan Kohan take the Bihoro bound, Route 240. 6km from Akan Kohan, turn left on to Route 241. Continue along Route 241 for 8km, take a well signposted left turn for Meakan Onsen and Onneto Lake. Meakan Onsen is 4km ahead, further along the road is Lake Onneto.

From early July to mid-October, Akan Bus operates 3 buses a day from Akan Kohan to Ao-nen-no-uchi, stopping at Meakan Onsen and Lake Onneto. It's a 45 minute bus journey costing 1200yen.

Akan Kohan > Meakan Onsen
DEPARTURE TIMES [10:00] [12:30] [14:50]

Meakan Onsen > Akan Kohan
DEPARTURE TIMES [11:00] [13:30] [15:50]

Onneto Trail
From Akan Kohan take the Bihoro bound, Route 240. 6km from Akan Kohan, turn left on to Route 241. Continue along Route 241 for 8km, take a well signposted left turn for Meakan Onsen and Onneto Lake. Passing Meakan Onsen and Lake Onneto, Ao-nen-no-uchi, where the trail starts, is at the end of this road.

From early July to mid-October, Akan Bus operates 3 buses a day from Akan Kohan to Ao-nen-no-uchi, stopping at Meakan Onsen and Lake Onneto. It's a 45 minute bus journey costing 1200yen.

*Akan Kohan is a popular tourist town/resort all year round. Booking ahead is essential.

The Akan Kohan Tourist Information Centre are extremely helpful when looking for accommodation in Akan Kohan. Contact them at : 0154-67-3200
Camping
There is 1 campground in Akan Kohan. A 5 minute walk from the bus terminal, the campground has good facilities and costs 630yen per person camping.
Youth Hostel
There are no youth hostels in Akan Kohan. The only youth hostel servicing Meakan-Dake is Nonaka Onsen Youth Hostel, conveniently located at Meakan Onsen. A night costs 2,835yen without meals.

Nonaka Onsen Youth Hostel: 0156-29-7454

*Meakan Onsen is a 45 minute bus journey from Akan Kohan.
Other
Akan Kohan has hotels and guesthouses in every price range.