Miyanoura-dake is the highest mountain on the Japanese island Yakushima.
Taking into account that Yakushima is a rather small island, it offers the possibility to climb from sea level to the top in a 2 or 3 day tour. Such a tour involves the passing of a number of vegetation zones from dense and wet subtropical forests towards an open alpine landscape - highly recommended.
Summitview SouthSummit view
Sunrise during the climb toward Miyanoura-dakeSunrise over the Pacific Ocean

Yakushima is located 60 km south of the the southern tip of Kyushu and belongs to the Osumi islands. Since 1993 Yakushima is listed as a Natural World Heritage by the UNESCO. This nomination is mainly due to the dense and natural forests in the core area containing the Yakusugi cedar trees with ages of 2000 years and more. Reasons for this attractions are one of the worlds highest precipitation and the remoteness of the mountain area. The humid climate makes Miyanoura-dake and its surrounding mountains the southernmost points of Japan covered by snow in winter for several months.

The weather and the geographical location in between the East Chinese Sea and the Pacific Ocean can turn a climb more challenging as the height and southern latitude might imply

There is a seaside camp site at the southern end of Miyanoura which was unfortunately closed in March and the owner didn't allow anyone to stay on the completely unused space. Some sources say that it is open from April, but this is not sure.

Yodogawa hut:

Free camping is allowed at the Yodogawa hut. In summer most hiker prefer to stay in the tent. Either you come early or you use the simple but clean logger-style hut that sleeps more than 20 people. Beside the hut is a clean river that provides drinking water.

Yakushima is one of the wettest places in the world with a precipitation of up to 10,000 mm per year. Locals claim it rains "35 days per month." In connection with the high temperatures in summer it makes hiking a challenge - not only due to the climate but also due to the fast growing vegetation. Especially on the less frequently used trails one has to compeed with bushes growing over the path and numbers of large trees fallen over the trail. In summer bring along some salt or tobacco to fight leeches.